sparklyr 1.2.0 blog post (#77)
rstudio/tensorflow-blog: _posts/2020-04-21-sparklyr-1.2.0-released/sparklyr-1.2.0.Rmd

---
title: "Sparklyr v1.2.0 released"
description: |

>   Sparklyr v1.2.0 is now available. This release features new functionalities such as support for Databricks Connect and `registerDoSpark`, inter-op improvements for working with Spark-3.0.0-preview, as well as a number of bug fixes and improvements addressing user-visible pain points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Sparklyr v1.2.0 is now available. This release features new functionalities such as support for Databricks Connect and registerDoSpark, inter-op improvements for working with Spark-3.0.0-preview, as well as a number of bug fixes and improvements addressing user-visible pain points.
```

author:
  - name: Yitao Li
    url: https://github.com/yl790
    affiliation: RStudio
    affiliation_url: https://www.rstudio.com
date: 04-21-2020
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    self_contained: false
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = FALSE)
```

> Behold the glory that is Sparklyr v1.2.0!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behold the glory that is `sparklyr` v1.2.0!
```

In this release, the following new hotnesses have emerged into spotlight:

> - Support for Databricks Connect [https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/databricks-connect.html], allowing Sparklyr to connect to a Databircks cluster. This is a result of close collaboration between Javier from RStudio and Hossein, Andy, et al from DataBricks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support for [Databricks Connect](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/databricks-connect.html), allowing `sparklyr` to connect to a Databricks cluster. This is a result of close collaboration between Javier from RStudio and Hossein, Andy, and others from DataBricks.
```

> - A `registerDoSpark` method to create foreach parallel backend powered by Spark

Reviewer: if that's correct content-wise, I'd write 

a `foreach` parallel backend

Author: Yep I think foreach in back quotes is better for readability :+1:

> - A `registerDoSpark` method to create foreach parallel backend powered by Spark

Author: ```suggestion
- A `registerDoSpark` method to create `foreach` parallel backend powered by Spark
```

> A number of inter-op issues observed with Sparklyr and Spark-3.0.0-preview were also addressed recently, in hope that by the time Spark 3.0 officially graces us with its presence, Sparklyr will be fully ready to work with it. Most notably, key features such as `sparklyr::spark_submit`, `sparklyr::sdf_bind_rows`, and sparkylr gateway connection are now finally working with Spark-3.0.0-preview. For more gory details, see [2285](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/pull/2285), [2310](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/pull/2310), [2321](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/issues/2321), etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A number of inter-op issues observed with `sparklyr` and Spark-3.0.0-preview were also addressed recently, in hope that by the time Spark 3.0 officially graces us with its presence, `sparklyr` will be fully ready to work with it. Most notably, key features such as `sparklyr::spark_submit`, `sparklyr::sdf_bind_rows`, and `sparklyr` gateway connection are now finally working with Spark-3.0.0-preview. For more gory details, see [2285](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/pull/2285), [2310](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/pull/2310), [2321](https://github.com/sparklyr/sparklyr/issues/2321), etc.
```

> Last but not least, we heard about a number of pain points Sparklyr users have run into, and have addressed many of them in this release as well. For example, date type in R is now correctly serialized into Spark SQL date type by `sdf_copy_to`, `<spark dataframe> %>% print(n = 20)` now actually print 20 rows as expected instead of 10, `spark_connect(master = "local")` will emit a more informative error message if it's failing because the loopback interface is not up, just to name a few. We wish to thank the open source community for their continuous feedbacks on Sparklyr, and are looking forward to incorporating more of those feedbacks to make Sparklyr even better in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last but not least, we heard about a number of pain points `sparklyr` users have run into, and have addressed many of them in this release as well. For example:

 -  date type in R is now correctly serialized into Spark SQL date type by `sdf_copy_to`
 -  `<spark dataframe> %>% print(n = 20)` now actually prints 20 rows as expected instead of 10
 - `spark_connect(master = "local")` will emit a more informative error message if it's failing because the loopback interface is not up
 
  ...  to just name a few. We wish to thank the open source community for their continuous feedback on `sparklyr`, and are looking forward to incorporating more of that feedback to make `sparklyr` even better in the future.
```

> Finally, in chronological order, we wish thanks to the following individuals for contributing to Sparklyr v1.2.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, in chronological order, we wish to thank the following individuals for contributing to `sparklyr` v1.2.0:
```

Author: Ughh good catch!! :D
